# Software-Security

Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and its software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did the company want you to address?

Artemis Financial is a consulting company in the financial sector involving savings, retirement, investment, and insurance plans. They work in the world of money and as such want to stay with the most modern capabilities and operating capabilities for the services it provides. I work for Global Rain, a custom software design and development company, and was tasked with ensuring Artemis Financial had possessed the most current and effective software security for their clients and their company operations.

What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?

Part of my work aiding Artemis Financial in achieving modern and effective security for their software involved checking their software for security vulnerabilities. This involved manual review and assessment of their code in conjunction with an automated dependency vulnerability check that I implement into their program to then analyze assets present in the software for security vulnerabilities. When these vulnerabilities were noted with either method of recognition, the next step is to verify the findings. The automated check is not infallible, therefore must be scrutinized for any false positives. From there, once all findings are found to be legitimate, research must be done on the issues that each is known to cause and how to eliminate or mitigate the effects of them. Most assets for Artemis simply required updating to a more recent, or latest, version that had previous issues patched out. Even then, some assets have inherent problems and require understanding of how they can be prevented from being abused.

Coding securely is definitely recommended when creating a program, but especially in the case of Artemis Financial it is absolutely required. Any program that sees personal information, company information, or many other types of information that should not be public, should possess security as necessary to prevent information being acquired and used by entities that should not have it. Protecting the users of a program and their private information and lives should be the top priority when designing safe and secure code. Without proper security measures and a strong defense in depth, or multi-layer, security scheme then sensitive information can be easily obtained and misused. A company that can safeguard its clients and own data safely will prove as a respected and trusted member of whatever industry they work in. On the reverse end, if a company cannot maintain security of its software and data they can face monetary fines, legal issues, loss of public trust, and a whole host of other things eventually resulting in loss of productivity and profit.

Which part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?

The automated dependency vulnerability check was extremely helpful to identify assets, their version, and known vulnerabilities. This was provided in a convenient manner that allowed for easy problem recognition and while it did not provide an exact path forward for dealing with the issues, it provided the reports on the vulnerabilities themselves that did. The only part of the vulnerability assessment that proved any kind of cumbersome was identifying which versions of a particular asset were vulnerable. Assets that possessed many security vulnerabilities had many overlapping versions that were susceptible, therefore making sifting through afflicted versions time consuming. In this project, however, many identified vulnerabilities were solved by using more recent versions.

How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?

Layers of security were provided by creation of my own certificate for use with the program and website. This certificate is the "virtual handshake" that is performed when a user is attempting access a website. A certificate is held by a website while a certificate authority assesses the website and validates the website as legitimate once review of the website has been performed. The validated certificate is reflected when a user accesses the now formally secure website and displays that the website is recognize as a legitimate and secure website. The website was encrypted with HTTPS, or hypertext transfer protocol secure, making data encrypted between website and client. These certificates and encryption capabilities were implemented via recommendations of strong and modern encryption algorithms I learned throughout the course.

In this course I learned how to visually review code and identify different areas of a program that could have their own vulnerabilities, such as the API, classes, code error handling, and code quality. These different areas, and a few more, can be scrutinized and a determination can be made on whether or not security issues exist with how a program is made. Manual version checking can be performed and reviewed for possible issues, but utilizing a dependency vulnerability checker simplifies that process a quite a bit. An automated process to perform that is not always available and there are also many other types of checkers other than the one I utilized. Mitigation techniques can vary wildly from a slight program patch to an almost complete rewrite of affected code portions. Mitigation techniques should be considered based on how critical a security issue is in terms of exploitability and possible repercussions. There should also be consideration given based on how efficiently a fix can be implemented. These types of things decide how to mitigate vulnerabilities.

How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?

I executed the code and analyzed the code prior to accomplishing and security implementation. The code performed as expected and contained a certain number of vulnerability issues. After implementing the aforementioned encryption measures the code was ran and the assessment was reperformed to ensure no new vulnerabilities were added to the program. The refactored code showed that encryption was indeed added whilst the vulnerability assessment also showed no new issues had arisen.

What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?

The main tool I utilized was the Maven Dependency Checker. This allowed me to quickly identify assets, their version, and known vulnerabilities. This type of tool was new to me, but I will most definitely attempt to implement the same, or similar, tool when able. I got my feet wet in this course implementing encryption algorithms into a program, but this most certainly will not be the last time. Being able to read the documentation on how to implement the algorithm into Java was immensely helpful, as the documentation typically is, but I most definitely will continue to build on using documentation with most everything I can.

Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?

I can show from this assignment that I was successfully able to implement a level of encryption into a program. Part of encrypting a phrase for the assignment, I also output the encrypted hash value of said phrase. That is proof that my original phrase was safe and secure behind the manipulations of the encryption algorithm. I can also showcase my work with certificates. Certificates can be utilized on a local level, such as a local area network, to provide different users with different accesses and capabilities. Certificates were utilized in the course to show that a website can be assigned a certificate that can be recognized by a formal certificate authority. My work with them here shows that I can create and manage them, which can be useful in more applications than just a website.
